# American Employment Discrimination
Although under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, employment discrimination is not overt, race-based and sex-based discrimination privately exists in the U.S. workplace, and it has been pervasive for a long time. The minorities and women receive unfair evaluation and disparate treatment so that they face higher unemployment rates, lower earnings with the same performance and fewer opportunities to be promoted to managerial or corporate positions. To quantify and present employment discrimination would be key for public policy makers to understand how the allocation mechanism operates. Through the raw data, this thesis aims to use Python to analyze the data of employment status and visualize the differences between race, sex and age. The raw data collected by the Census Bureau includes the following demographics: population over 16, labor force, not in labor force, employed and unemployed persons, employment and unemployment rate etc. and is divided by race, gender and age from 1948 to 2017.

# Data
The raw data from official website of Census Bureau is collected by Census Bureau and are excel files, which consist of five sheets. The first sheet is the number of employed person and labor force and their ratio of population by men and women and by White, Black or African American, Asian, Native American, Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander and detailed Hispanic or Latino ethnicity 2000-2016. The second sheet is the overall population over 16, labor force, employed person, unemployed person from 1948 to 2017. The third and fourth separately focused on male and female divide by age group from 16-24 years to 65 years and older. The fifth sheet show the comparation of employment status of native born and foreign, citizen and non-citizen.

# Conclusion
The study revealed that employment discrimination undoubtedly exists for a long time. In terms of race, Asian is “Model Minority” and has similar even better employment status than White. African American is under most significant discrimination regardless of male or female. Hispanic or Latino is slightly worse than White but show better trend. There isn’t huge change of employment discrimination on Hispanic or Latino ethnicity within 16 years. In terms of sex, male had huge advantage on employment in 50s but fell very soon. 

In conclusion, Sexism is more significant than racism in the workplace except for African American, which means women is discriminated more than race minority. But employment discrimination is the process of getting weaker and weaker from 50s, particularly on the sex.

The results provide us a dropping tendency of employment discrimination, which means the government has taken effective strategies and actions on this problem. However, government and society still should pay more attentions to potential sexism and inequal employment status of African American on the workplace.
